README.md, before:

# Music Player

A web-based music player application built using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Flask. This project allows users to upload, play, and manage audio files seamlessly.

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)
- [Notes](#notes)
<!-- - [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact Information](#contact-information) -->

## Features

- Play, pause audio tracks with intuitive controls.
- Volume control and mute functionality for a personalized listening experience.
- Upload, edit (TODO), and delete audio files directly through the interface.

## Installation

To set up the project locally, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/music-player.git
    cd music-player
   ```

2. **Set up a virtual environment and activate it:**
    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
    ```

3. **Install the required dependencies:**
    ```bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    ```

4. **Run the Flask application:**
    ```bash
    python3 server.py
    ```

5. **Open your browser and go to:**
    ```bash
    http://127.0.0.1:8000/audio
    ```

## Usage

1. **Uploading Audio Files:**
    - Click the "Adaugă" button to upload new audio files.

2. **Playing Audio Files:**
    - Click the play button to start the audio.
    - Use the slider to seek through the track.
    - Adjust the volume or mute the audio as needed.

3. **Managing Audio Files:**
    - Delete audio files using the provided links in the table.
    - Edit functionality is not yet available and is under development.

4. **Current Song Display:**
    - Selecting and displaying the current song is under development.

## API Documentation

The music player application exposes a set of HTTP endpoints for interacting with audio files stored in a database. Below is a detailed description of each endpoint, including its URL, methods, parameters, and response details.

### Endpoints

#### 1. Serve JavaScript and CSS

- **GET /audio/js/&lt;path&gt;**

  - **Description:** Serves JavaScript files from the `js` directory.
  - **Path Parameters:**
    - `path` (string): The path to the JavaScript file to be served.
  - **Response:** The requested JavaScript file.

- **GET /audio/css/&lt;path&gt;**

  - **Description:** Serves CSS files from the `css` directory.
  - **Path Parameters:**
    - `path` (string): The path to the CSS file to be served.
  - **Response:** The requested CSS file.

#### 2. Home Page

- **GET /audio/**

  - **Description:** Renders the home page displaying all audio files from the database.
  - **Response:** HTML page with a list of audio files.
  - **Errors:** 
    - Returns a `500` error with a message if there is an issue fetching data from the database.

#### 3. Add New Audio

- **GET /audio/add**

  - **Description:** Renders a form for adding a new audio file.
  - **Response:** HTML page with a form to upload audio.

- **POST /audio/add**

  - **Description:** Adds a new audio file to the database.
  - **Request Body:**
    - `title` (string): The title of the audio track.
    - `autor` (string): The author of the audio track.
    - `file` (file): The audio file to be uploaded.
  - **Response:** Redirects to `/audio/` on success.
  - **Errors:**
    - Returns a `400` error if title, author, or file is missing.
    - Returns a `500` error if there is an issue saving the file or inserting the record into the database.

#### 4. Delete Audio
- **DELETE /audio/delete**

  - **Description:** Deletes an audio file from the database based on the provided ID.
  - **Query Parameters:**
    - `id` (string): The ID of the audio track to delete.
  - **Response:** JSON message indicating success.
  - **Errors:**
    - Returns a `400` error if the `id` parameter is missing.
    - Returns a `500` error if there is an issue deleting the record.

#### 5. Edit Audio

- **GET /audio/edit**

  - **Description:** Renders a form to edit an existing audio file's details.
  - **Query Parameters:**
    - `id` (string): The ID of the audio track to edit.
  - **Response:** HTML page with a form pre-filled with the current audio details.
  - **Errors:**
    - Returns a `500` error if there is an issue fetching the record.

- **POST /audio/edit**

  - **Description:** Updates an existing audio file's details in the database.
  - **Request Body:**
    - `title` (string): The new title of the audio track.
    - `autor` (string): The new author of the audio track.
    - `file` (file): The new audio file to upload (optional).
  - **Response:** Redirects to `/audio/` on success.
  - **Errors:**
    - Returns a `500` error if there is an issue updating the record.

### Database Schema

The application uses a database table named `mp3player` with the following schema:

- **id** (INT, Primary Key): The unique identifier for each audio track.
- **title** (VARCHAR): The title of the audio track.
- **autor** (VARCHAR): The author of the audio track.
- **filemp3** (VARCHAR): The file path of the uploaded audio file.

### Error Handling

The application returns appropriate HTTP status codes along with error messages when requests fail due to missing parameters or database errors.

### Environment Variables

The application can be configured using the following environment variables:

- `MYSQL_HOST`: The hostname of the MySQL server (default: `localhost`).
- `MYSQL_USER`: The username for MySQL authentication (default: `root`).
- `MYSQL_PASSWORD`: The password for MySQL authentication (default: `pass`).
- `MYSQL_DATABASE`: The name of the MySQL database (default: `mydb`).
- `MYSQL_PORT`: The port number for the MySQL server (default: `3306`).

Ensure you have a `.env` file set up with these variables if you want to customize the database connection.

## Screenshots

### Notes

- **Highlight Incomplete Features:** Clearly indicate that the "edit" feature is not yet complete and is currently under development.


<!-- 

**Design**
-----------------

![Image](DOC/player.png)

Pe prima pagina vom avea:
* logo-ul aplicatiei
* player-ul audio
* Inputurile cu muzica
* doua butoane in partea stanga prin care putem edita si sterge muzica
* un buton jos prin care se va putea incarca muzica

**Model arhitectural**
----------------------

![Image](DOC/schita.png)

* Serverul va fi creat in Python.
* Frontentul va fi creat in HTML si CSS.
* Vom folosi a baza de date SQLite.

**API - Server**
----------------

* cand apasam pe butonul _adauga_ ne va aparea un pop-up cu un formular.
```
playload: {title: value
           autor: value
           file: value.mp3}
```
* Butonul de adugat va merge pe ruta **/audio/adauga**  metoda **POST**.

![Image](DOC/adauga.png)

* Butonul de stergere va afisa un pop-up care ne va intreba daca suntem siguri ca vrem sa stergem muzica.

* Butonul de stergere va merge pe ruta **/audio/delete/{id}** metoda **DELETE**

![Image](DOC/sterge.png)

* Butonul de editeaza ne va afisa formularul cu titlu si autorul muzici.

![Image](DOC/editeaza.png)

* 
**/audio/PUT/{id}** - va face un request pe metoda de PUT


```
playload: {title: music name
           autor: autor name
           file: music.mp3}
```


Link-uri utile:
---------------

- [HTTP/REST API File Uploads](https://phil.tech/api/2016/01/04/http-rest-api-file-uploads/) -->

Commit message:

Update README: Improved phrasing for incomplete features & add Note

README.md, after:

# Music Player

A web-based music player application built using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Flask. This project allows users to upload, play, and manage audio files seamlessly.

> Note: The original repository for this project was hosted on a private Bitbucket account within an organization, but access was lost. Consequently, a new repository has been established to continue development and maintain the application.

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)
- [Notes](#notes)
<!-- - [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact Information](#contact-information) -->

## Features

- Play, pause audio tracks with intuitive controls.
- Volume control and mute functionality for a personalized listening experience.
- Upload, edit (TODO), and delete audio files directly through the interface.

## Installation

To set up the project locally, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/music-player.git
    cd music-player
   ```

2. **Set up a virtual environment and activate it:**
    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
    ```

3. **Install the required dependencies:**
    ```bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    ```

4. **Run the Flask application:**
    ```bash
    python3 server.py
    ```

5. **Open your browser and go to:**
    ```bash
    http://127.0.0.1:8000/audio
    ```

## Usage

1. **Uploading Audio Files:**
    - Click the "Adaugă" button to upload new audio files.

2. **Playing Audio Files:**
    - Click the play button to start the audio.
    - Use the slider to seek through the track.
    - Adjust the volume or mute the audio as needed.

3. **Managing Audio Files:**
    - Delete audio files using the provided links in the table.
    - Edit functionality is not yet available and is under development.

4. **Current Song Display:**
    - Selecting and displaying the current song is under development.

## API Documentation

The music player application exposes a set of HTTP endpoints for interacting with audio files stored in a database. Below is a detailed description of each endpoint, including its URL, methods, parameters, and response details.

### Endpoints

#### 1. Serve JavaScript and CSS

- **GET /audio/js/&lt;path&gt;**

  - **Description:** Serves JavaScript files from the `js` directory.
  - **Path Parameters:**
    - `path` (string): The path to the JavaScript file to be served.
  - **Response:** The requested JavaScript file.

- **GET /audio/css/&lt;path&gt;**

  - **Description:** Serves CSS files from the `css` directory.
  - **Path Parameters:**
    - `path` (string): The path to the CSS file to be served.
  - **Response:** The requested CSS file.

#### 2. Home Page

- **GET /audio/**

  - **Description:** Renders the home page displaying all audio files from the database.
  - **Response:** HTML page with a list of audio files.
  - **Errors:** 
    - Returns a `500` error with a message if there is an issue fetching data from the database.

#### 3. Add New Audio

- **GET /audio/add**

  - **Description:** Renders a form for adding a new audio file.
  - **Response:** HTML page with a form to upload audio.

- **POST /audio/add**

  - **Description:** Adds a new audio file to the database.
  - **Request Body:**
    - `title` (string): The title of the audio track.
    - `autor` (string): The author of the audio track.
    - `file` (file): The audio file to be uploaded.
  - **Response:** Redirects to `/audio/` on success.
  - **Errors:**
    - Returns a `400` error if title, author, or file is missing.
    - Returns a `500` error if there is an issue saving the file or inserting the record into the database.

#### 4. Delete Audio
- **DELETE /audio/delete**

  - **Description:** Deletes an audio file from the database based on the provided ID.
  - **Query Parameters:**
    - `id` (string): The ID of the audio track to delete.
  - **Response:** JSON message indicating success.
  - **Errors:**
    - Returns a `400` error if the `id` parameter is missing.
    - Returns a `500` error if there is an issue deleting the record.

#### 5. Edit Audio

- **GET /audio/edit**

  - **Description:** Renders a form to edit an existing audio file's details.
  - **Query Parameters:**
    - `id` (string): The ID of the audio track to edit.
  - **Response:** HTML page with a form pre-filled with the current audio details.
  - **Errors:**
    - Returns a `500` error if there is an issue fetching the record.

- **POST /audio/edit**

  - **Description:** Updates an existing audio file's details in the database.
  - **Request Body:**
    - `title` (string): The new title of the audio track.
    - `autor` (string): The new author of the audio track.
    - `file` (file): The new audio file to upload (optional).
  - **Response:** Redirects to `/audio/` on success.
  - **Errors:**
    - Returns a `500` error if there is an issue updating the record.

### Database Schema

The application uses a database table named `mp3player` with the following schema:

- **id** (INT, Primary Key): The unique identifier for each audio track.
- **title** (VARCHAR): The title of the audio track.
- **autor** (VARCHAR): The author of the audio track.
- **filemp3** (VARCHAR): The file path of the uploaded audio file.

### Error Handling

The application returns appropriate HTTP status codes along with error messages when requests fail due to missing parameters or database errors.

### Environment Variables

The application can be configured using the following environment variables:

- `MYSQL_HOST`: The hostname of the MySQL server (default: `localhost`).
- `MYSQL_USER`: The username for MySQL authentication (default: `root`).
- `MYSQL_PASSWORD`: The password for MySQL authentication (default: `pass`).
- `MYSQL_DATABASE`: The name of the MySQL database (default: `mydb`).
- `MYSQL_PORT`: The port number for the MySQL server (default: `3306`).

Ensure you have a `.env` file set up with these variables if you want to customize the database connection.

## Screenshots

### Notes

> **Highlight Incomplete Features:** Clearly indicate that the "edit" feature, as well as the functionality for selecting and displaying the current song, are not yet complete and are under development.


<!-- 

**Design**
-----------------

![Image](DOC/player.png)

Pe prima pagina vom avea:
* logo-ul aplicatiei
* player-ul audio
* Inputurile cu muzica
* doua butoane in partea stanga prin care putem edita si sterge muzica
* un buton jos prin care se va putea incarca muzica

**Model arhitectural**
----------------------

![Image](DOC/schita.png)

* Serverul va fi creat in Python.
* Frontentul va fi creat in HTML si CSS.
* Vom folosi a baza de date SQLite.

**API - Server**
----------------

* cand apasam pe butonul _adauga_ ne va aparea un pop-up cu un formular.
```
playload: {title: value
           autor: value
           file: value.mp3}
```
* Butonul de adugat va merge pe ruta **/audio/adauga**  metoda **POST**.

![Image](DOC/adauga.png)

* Butonul de stergere va afisa un pop-up care ne va intreba daca suntem siguri ca vrem sa stergem muzica.

* Butonul de stergere va merge pe ruta **/audio/delete/{id}** metoda **DELETE**

![Image](DOC/sterge.png)

* Butonul de editeaza ne va afisa formularul cu titlu si autorul muzici.

![Image](DOC/editeaza.png)

* 
**/audio/PUT/{id}** - va face un request pe metoda de PUT


```
playload: {title: music name
           autor: autor name
           file: music.mp3}
```


Link-uri utile:
---------------

- [HTTP/REST API File Uploads](https://phil.tech/api/2016/01/04/http-rest-api-file-uploads/) -->
